# ASCII-Nator
ASCII-Nator is a project that allows you to convert almost any image into an ASCII art text file. Java was used to code this project and it includes GUI with JavaFX. When running the project, you are met with a interface that allows you to enter the url of a image from the internet. (this way you don't have to download any images). Once you do so, a texteditor like notepad will pop up with the ASCII symbols on it. Make sure that you use a **monospaced** font such as courier new for the ascii art to align properly. Also you may have to zoom out or use a small font if the image is really big. Once you have the monospaced font you will be able to see your image in black and white and if you zoom in you will be able to see that it's all made up of symbols such as "/" and "="!

The program works by running through ever single pixel in the image and systematically replacing it with a corresponding ASCII symbol. This comes together to become a image because at every pixel, the grayscale of the pixel is calculated, and it is replaced with a symbol that looks about equally as dark or bright. This way a black and white image is shown. However it may not appear black and white because when there are so many symbols it appears as if there is color when in fact there isn't. At first we wanted to make it so that it displays the ascii art in a GUI popup but we realized that just opening it up in notepad would be better because it gives the user the freedom to zoom in and out and use whatever font they would like. Some images won't work however because of the URL. Try playing around with different images and see how it looks! 

#### Demo: https://youtu.be/jUTnW7x7Hi4
